Perhaps the biggest obstacle is the sense of Egoity. The conviction that you are your body and that you must fight to survive. The ego thinks it must win, when it does it's silent and you feel happy. When it loses all kinds of craziness can erupt in your mind. Jiujitsu rolling offers you an opportunity to transcend the Ego by surrendering the need to win while at the same trying to win.

  * Getting squashed in a cross side pin and having a panic attack? Tap out and review your elbow and knee escapes. Ask a more senior ninja how to resolve the situation.

  * Neck is getting pushed too far out of alignment but you're not in a strangle? Tap out and start again. Your neck will be better off for it.

  * Superhero white belt caught you in an armlock from the back? Tap out or you're gonna get broken brah.

Yes the objective is to control and submit your training partners & competitors but at the same time you fail your way to success. You make mistakes, you find vulnerabilities and then you work to resolve them. All the while you have to respect every training partner because jiujitsu is so mechanically powerful that you won't survive long term if you don't respect and submit when you're hosed.

<blockquote class="blockquote">
  <p class="mb-0">The society that separates its scholars from its warriors will have its thinking done by cowards and its fighting by fools. Those whose minds are least sensitive to calamity, and whose hands are most quick to meet it, are the greatest men and the greatest communities.</p>
  <footer class="blockquote-footer">Thucydides </footer>
</blockquote>

Jiujitsu don't care about your feelings. And that is valuable because neither does anyone else in actuality. Feelings aren't the truth. You are what you are, so make yourself a little better each day. Jits is a vehicle for that transformation.

To my coaches, senior training partners and fellow competitors thanks for the company on the trail, every single one of ya. Jits is a miracle for me. It's a crucible for your body and your character. Ego is a trickster, you keep me honest and often dispense necessary justice.
